---
type:
  - meeting
status: raw
project:
  - UNDP_BTR
created: 2026-01-14
---
# BTR project
- Very important!!The adaptation M&E platform will be design based on TDRI's NAP Action Plan outputs. The documentation of the NAP action plan is in  [[Analysis of NAP Indicators and Adaptation M&E Contribution (TDRI version)]] and [[Analysis of TDRI work on NAP Indicators and Adaptation M&E Contribution]]
- This means that the design of the tables of the M&E platform database will change. The definition and scope of adaptation M&E will also change. This entails the changes in the framework for setting and categorizing indicators. 
	- It is likely that the indicators are derived from stakeholder engagement without solid framing of M&E theory and indicator types and what is considered an effective MEL process
- The next question will be which framework that the baseline framework must align to? the action-oriented NAP indicators? or the CU research team's adaptation M&Emanual which structures the indicators around the concept of risk components (exposure, sensitivity, adaptive capacity, resilience , impact). Even though the definitions of indicator types may be partially flawed, there is still a notion of group indicators based on their nature and use.
- This also raises a question about the usefulness of the adaptation M&E platform products when judging from the A-BTR use case. Nothing ensures us that the outputs from that project will answer directly to A-BTR reporting, which we need to fulfill.
	- What can we do in the meantime?















