---
type:
  - meeting
status: raw
project:
  - TMD-WMO NFCS
created: 2025-12-15
---
Participant:
1. TMD
	- Director: Chalump
	- Took
	- Jum+
	- Toon
2. Creagy

# Agenda
- discuss timeline 
- output format
- workshops for validating results
- next step


# Project Output
- NFCS action plan report for human settlement sector

>[!note] Creagy is a management consulting firm helping TMD develop their products to scale the impacts


# Scope of work
1. institutional analysis
	1. engagement playbook for TMD
		1. stakeholder engagement approach
		2. law and mandate navigation
2. baseline assessment
	1. climate service landscape in human settlement sector
3. strategic roadmap to drive NFCS

# Content
- agreement between DCCE and TMD: TMD has MoM of the last meeting with GIZ
- How will this agreement approved? who has the authority?
- consultation workshop: on this week 9-13 March 2026 presenting progress, baseline assessment, and data landscape. Thus the reports should be ready prior to the meeting. 
- Strategic roadmap planning
	- strategy type
- Validation workshop
- 1st progress meeting - by Jan 2026
	- stakeholder map
	- questionnaire + Key Informant Interview (KII) plans
	- [ ] policy and mandate review for climate services are the main focus of January 2026 work for #TMD WMO project
- KII and questionnaire starts in February 2026
- Setting up Task Force for strategic roadmap planning
	- ? how difficult is setting up a task force (multi-departmental)
	- TMD uses project staff as the task force members 
		- [ ] Urban Act project is setting up a task force (in process). This project can share the same task force. 


- Review mandate and authority: start with Climate Change Act -> might need to do KII for clarification 
- Support documents from TMD: strategy doc, internal documents. There is no docs or plans that are framed as climate strategy. 
- Can we have urban act outputs? 
# Quote from TMD's staff
 Dr. Chalump (Head of Climatology Division)
 - Is TMD stakeholder or just a data provider?
 - things are still unclear. 
 - Climate services fall under the Climatology Division within TMD
 - TMD still has other services in addition to climate services (weather service, early warning services). So climate services will be division's work, not department's work.
 - *Urban Act learning*
	 - Who would initiate the design requirements of climate information? TMD or the beneficiaries?
	 - Tokenism: assign a wrong man to the meeting. stakeholders don't get whom to be appointed to participate in the co-creation process
		 - [ ] specific requirements for representatives of every unit. the representatives must be consistent throughout the project too
	 - Communication between science and non- science stakeholders 
		 - stakeholders still question the usefulness of climate service products even TMD has done their homework. The capacity gap is still large
Jum+
- how much flexibility we can offer
- TMD will give priority to the mandates they have to follow. Urban Act and this project is adds-on. The strategy would be aligning these projects to TMD's mandates 

Took
- TMD does not have strategies on climate change yet
- Since the Ministry of Digital Economy views climate services as 'service' so they don't think that the strategy should be proactive or setting the climate service agenda. 
-  NFCS and  will not go up to national level plan (1st level or 2nd level plan). It will be internal plan
- When 

- [ ] If projects are not 'digital infrastructure', will TMD be eligible to request budget for implementation? This question must be addressed in this project

---
*What Creagy would do next*
- [ ] Group projects and strategies in TMD's 5-year master plan that focus on technical capacity development 
- [ ] Understand project types that enhance infrastructure which inherently links to enhancing capacity of TMD to provide climate services
- [ ] Check Draft Climate Change Act (section 12 drafted by TMD) and Draft TMD Act if there will be a new mandate for TMD