---
type:
  - meeting
status: raw
project:
created: 2025-12-08
---
# My agenda
## 1. engagement event syncs

1. ADPC data exploration and collection synced with CRDB metadata collection:
	- CRDM `Baseline Data Inventory` (and BTR `baseline data reference sheet`) can take the opportunity of ADPC engagement with data owners to collect important metadata and explore data availability.
	- [[sync CRDB metadata collection with ADPC's data owner visit]]
	- [[Metadata template for risk assessment area - baseline data inventory]]

2. CRDB Brainstorming event and Public hearing
	1. Brainstorming event is planned for exploring and collecting 'datasets' hold by data owners, exchanging use cases and needs for climate services. Minimum attendees 80 people.
	2. Public hearing meeting: more like feedback meeting on NCAIF draft.  Minimum attendees 50 people
	There is an opportunity to merge these events. They are originally planned to be organized in March, after finishing the interviews and the second round of NCAIF refinement focus group with DCCE

3.  BTR Baseline Framework Validation 
	- Once the draft M&E system is developed, the **Stakeholder Consultation Workshop** (Task 3.4.b) is scheduled for **March–April 2026**. This critical event focuses on validating the draft Baseline Framework Document and the Data Reference Sheet. It involves a larger group of up to 100 participants to ensure broad sector buy-in8. 
	- **Note:** Unlike other events, the TOR explicitly states that the **Contractor is responsible for covering the logistic costs** for this workshop, using DCCE’s venue.
	- The event is planned to be organized in late April or early May 2026. The original schedule is just half day (containing 2 exact hours of content)

>[!question] How do we manage these engagement sessions to prevent stakeholder fatigue?
>1. Stakeholder maps
>2. Co-planning engagement timeline


## 2. KO meeting with DCCE on Climate Impact Dataset and Knowledge
- has the contract been signed?
- update the timeline
- schedule a call with DCCE

## 3. Questions regarding M&E framework
[[Key questions for M&E framework design]]